The last thing that we need to cover on uploading files is validating what is actually being uploaded.
So let's try another example when we will submit a blog post.
But this time we will send a text file.
This is actually our real text file so if you do not have any you can just prepare one.
Now what you can see here is there is no image but you can see that there is a link to the actual text
file and worst thing is that it was actually being uploaded and we are trying to display this particular
image.
So it's obviously no good.
We need to somehow validate that.
Now inside the Update method and the store method we use the same request glass the store post.
So let's open it now and there is no validation rule for the farm or any of field.
So let's add it now.
So fun.
Nail no scenes that image is not required.
We do not have to add the required validation but the most basic one we can add is image.
So this will actually verify if the uploaded file is an image so let's try it another time.
So provide some values that would work and try to upload a text file so this time you see that the front
now must be an image.
So now we do not allow users to upload anything else than image but also image can mean different things.
So let's say we only want to allow users to upload a J pic file so the validator for this is called
mimes.
Let's specify j peg as the only type which can be uploaded.
This will actually guess it on the mind type of the field file so it's not based on the extension.
Save the changes.
And now let's try to upload our PMG file.
This is actually a small Avatar image so let's try it.
And now you see that this cannot be uploaded.
OK.
So we might actually wants to allow users to upload PMG and even gifs or as G files.
So this is fine.
We just learned how to filter that but then we might not want users to upload files that are too big
so you can do that by specifying the max validation rule the same as we did with the length of the text
fields but in case of the files and in turn in case of images this is actually specifying the maximum
size in kilobytes.
So let's specify it as one megabyte and then we'll try to upload a bigger file.
So this one seems to be bigger than one megabyte
and now you see that the family may not be greater than one megabyte okay now.
So we actually filter that this is an image of specific type.
And that also the size is not bigger than one megabyte.
But since this is actually a blog post and we have some rules that will make this blog post title with
the hate of at least five hundred pixels.
Let's make sure that the domain dimensions of this image are smaller than that.
So to verify the dimensions of an image and notice does that this validator is only for images we can
use it dimensions
and now you can specify a couple of parameters so you can specify the minimum with the maximum width
of an image.
The minimum hate maximum hate exact with exact haIf or ratio and the ratio is there with divided by
hate.
So let's specify the first one.
So we want dimensions and incited the minimum hate should be five hundred.
Now let's try to upload a file which has different dimensions.
So I have one prepared here.
This is actually with the hate of a hundred 28 pixels
and you can see that the family image has invalid image dimensions so alternatively you can also specify
something like Marks hate.
The same with with so minimum with maximum hate.
Or if you need exact measurements you can do with hate.
You can also combine them and finally there is ratio so ratio could be something like this.
So the with should be free parts and hate two parts or other natively.
You can specify it like that.
So we've divided by hate would be to at least half the time line larger than it is.
OK.
So we only need the minimum height so let's keep it like that but just in case you would like to figure
out more options that you have with the validation then obviously please check out the lot of documentation.
It has a great page about all the possible options that you can use here.
The link is included.